[Music]
flatland BMX came from the US so there's
a group of break-dances who decided to
take up BMX riding and then since then
it's just grown even bigger there's it's
flatland still probably kind of the rare
discipline and BMX because it's so hard
to do you have to kind of keep
practicing all the time you can't really
kind of be off the bike for like a long
period of time otherwise you lose your
tricks so this is a flatland BMX bike
I've done a few little twists to it
myself so for my own style my own riding
I've cut down the seat so it just allows
me to move around the bike a little bit
easier I'm also running no breaks just
because I wanted to be a little bit more
challenging for myself whilst learning
tricks the tires I've got 120 psi and
the tires there's a lot of pressure in
there but it makes it easier to walk you
in is a 19 and it's a 9 on the back
don't really need that much speed the
sprockets small so it doesn't get in the
way whilst I'm doing tricks it's got
some pegs as well so the pegs are
basically they're metal but they've got
plastic caps at the end so it allows me
to pivot just running tape grip just so
I can feel the handlebars a little bit
better flatland is all about basically
make it the bike as light as possible so
it's easier to move around
[Music]
tennis-court most ideal place to learn
tricks it's safe it's away from traffic
and you can just practice here all day
there's no nobody going to basically
come and stop you so yeah this is the
most ideal place to practice and learn
tricks surfaces that you ride when
you're doing flatland
which are really ideal something smooth
flat level as you can see this is really
flat really hard surface it's really
grippy as well so it makes tricks a
little bit easier if you arm like riding
marble or slab you normally kind of like
slip out sometimes everything's just
done using a flat surface all the tricks
aren't there are no ramps you're not in
the air you're not racing it's just in a
flat level area and it's just dancing
around really it's probably the best way
to put it
[Music]
onto the left-hand side the front peg
and you're going to write have your
right foot on the back side on the
right-hand side and you're going to roll
that mediums